[RLlib; docs] Docs do-over (new API stack): New `debugging.rst` page. (#49592)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/rllib/developing-and-debugging.rst

.. warning::
    Before you perform the following steps, make sure you have everything committed and pushed to git. Your local branch should be free
    of any uncommitted changes.

.. code-block:: bash

    pip uninstall -y ray
    rm -rf <your pip-installed ray directory>  # only, if it's still there for some reason after the uninstall
    pip install -U <pick right wheel from https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-overview/installation.html#daily-releases-nightlies>
    git stash
    python python/ray/setup-dev.py  # <- only say `Y` to linking RLlib, then press CTRL+C to abort the script

Contributing to RLlib and creating a pull request
-------------------------------------------------

The Ray team is grateful for any external help we can get from the open source community in maintaining and developing RLlib.
Feel free to file new RLlib-related PRs through `Ray's github repo <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pulls>`__.

To create a pull request, branch out from ``master``, give your new branch a meaningful name:

.. code-block:: bash

    git checkout -b <name of your new branch>
    git branch  # verify your new branch

> Then start editing RLlib's source files and run your scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then start editing RLlib source files and run your scripts.
```

> When you have finished coding, commit your changes and push them back to your forked ``origin`` repository of Ray.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you have finished coding, commit the changes and push them back to the forked ``origin`` repository of Ray.
```

.. code-block:: bash

    git push -u origin <name of your new branch>

> Click this link here to `create a new pull request on the github website <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pulls/>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Create a new pull request on the GitHub website <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pulls/>`__.
```

> Git should highlight the pushed branch in yellow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub should highlight the pushed branch in yellow:
```

.. figure:: images/developing/git_pr.png
    :align: left

>     Click on the "Compare and pull request" button to start the pull request (PR) process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Click the **Compare and pull request** button to start the pull request (PR) process.
```

>     Fill out the form on the next page and submit your PR for review by the Ray team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Fill out the form on the next page and submit the PR for review by the Ray team.
```

> Contributing Fixes and Enhancements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contributing fixes and enhancements
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you are unsure about how to structure your bug-fix or enhancement PRs, create a smaller PR first,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unsure about how to structure a bug fix or enhancement PR, create a smaller PR first,
```

> then ask the team questions within the PRs conversation section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then ask the team questions in the PRs conversation section.
```

> See here for an `example of a good first community PR <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/46317>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See an `example of a good first community PR <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/46317>`__.
```

> New Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New features
```

++++++++++++

The Ray team tracks new feature developments, discussions, and upcoming priorities on the
`GitHub issues page <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues>`__.
Note that this may not include all development efforts.

> Contributing Algorithms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contributing algorithms
```

+++++++++++++++++++++++

> The guidelines for merging new algorithms into RLlib depend on the level of contribution you would like to make:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The guidelines for merging new algorithms into RLlib depend on the level of contribution you want to make:
```

* `Example Algorithms <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/tree/master/rllib/examples/algorithms>`__:
    - must subclass :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` and implement the :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm.training_step` method.
    - must include an actual `example script <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/tree/master/rllib/examples/algorithms>`__, which configures and runs the algorithm.
      Add this script to the `BUILD file <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/tree/master/rllib/BUILD>`__ to run as a CI test, proving that the algorithm can learn a certain task.
    - must offer features not present in existing algorithms.

* `Fully integrated Algorithms <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/tree/master/rllib/algorithms>`__ also require the following:

>     - must offer a substantial new capability not possible to add to other algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - must offer a substantially new capability that isn't possible to add to other algorithms.
```

    - must use RLlib abstractions and support distributed execution on the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.env_runner.EnvRunner` axis and :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` axis.

>       The respective config settings are ``config.env_runners(num_env_runners=...)`` and ``config.learners(num_learners=...)``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The respective config settings are ``config.env_runners(num_env_runners=...)`` and ``config.learners(num_learners=...)``.
```

>     - add your algorithm to the :ref:`algorithms overview page <rllib-algorithms-doc>` and describe it in detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - must be added to the :ref:`algorithms overview page <rllib-algorithms-doc>` with a detailed description.
```

    - must support custom :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule` classes.
    - must include at least one `tuned hyperparameter example <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/tree/master/rllib/tuned_examples>`__,
      which you add to the `BUILD file <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/tree/master/rllib/BUILD>`__ for automated CI-testing.

> Both example- and fully integrated algorithms ship with the ``ray`` PyPI package and the Ray CI system tests these automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both example and fully integrated algorithms ship with the ``ray`` PyPI package and the Ray CI system tests these automatically.
```

> API Stability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API stability
```

+++++++++++++

Objects and methods annotated with ``@PublicAPI``, ``@DeveloperAPI``, or ``@OldAPIStack`` have the following
API compatibility guarantees:

.. autofunction:: ray.util.annotations.PublicAPI
    :noindex:

.. autofunction:: ray.util.annotations.DeveloperAPI
    :noindex:

.. autofunction:: ray.rllib.utils.annotations.OldAPIStack
    :noindex:

Debugging RLlib
---------------

The fastest way to find and fix bugs in RLlib and your custom code is to use a locally installed IDE,
such as `PyCharm <https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/>`__ or `VS Code <https://code.visualstudio.com/>`__.

> The RLlib team recommends to install either one of these software first, before you start your journey into developing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RLlib team recommends installing either one of these software first, before starting your journey into developing.
```

Local debugging
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Despite Ray's and RLlib's distributed architectures and the fact that they best unfold all of their potential in production on large,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Despite the fact that Ray and RLlib have distributed architectures and that their largest value is on production on large,
```

> multi-node clusters, it's often helpful to start running your programs locally on your laptop or desktop machine and see,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
multi-node clusters, it's often helpful to start running your programs locally on your laptop or desktop machine to see
```

whether they roughly work as intended. Even if your local setup doesn't have some compute resources that are

> crucial for the actual training to succeed, most bugs already surface in the simplest of setups, for example in a single,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
crucial for the actual training to succeed, most bugs surface in the simplest of setups, for example in a single,
```

local process running on the CPU.

> Thus, before anything else, change your config for running an RLlib program in such a local setup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, before anything else, change your config for running an RLlib program in a local setup:
```

.. testcode::

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.ppo import PPOConfig

    config = (
        PPOConfig()
        .environment("Acrobot-v1")

        # Force one local EnvRunner for maximum simplicity on the EnvRunner axis.

>         # This EnvRunner instance is part of the main Algorithm process and doesn't run as a ray remote actor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # This EnvRunner instance is part of the main Algorithm process and doesn't run as a Ray remote actor.
```

        .env_runners(num_env_runners=0)

        # Force a local CPU-bound Learner for maximum simplicity on the Learner axis.

>         # This Learner instance is part of the main Algorithm process and doesn't run as a ray remote actor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # This Learner instance is part of the main Algorithm process and doesn't run as a Ray remote actor.
```

        .learners(num_learners=0, num_gpus_per_learner=0)
    )

With the preceding config, you can debug your Algorithm code through your IDE's visual debugger.
For example, go to the `PPO training_step() <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/rllib/algorithms/ppo/ppo.py>`__ method
implementation and set a breakpoint somewhere inside it:

.. figure:: images/developing/pycharm_breakpoint_ppo.png
    :align: left

    **A breakpoint set inside PPO's ``training_step()`` method**: When running your script without Ray Tune, your IDE should pause
    execution at that location in the code in each iteration.

> Your script stops at the breakpoint and you can look into variable values, execute custom python statements in the debugging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your script stops at the breakpoint and you can look into variable values, execute custom Python statements in the debugging
```

console, or go back in the call stack to the callers of ``training_step()``:

.. figure:: images/developing/pycharm_debugging_variables.png
    :align: left

    **Looking at variables at a breakpoint**: When execution pauses because of a breakpoint,
    you can look into variable values, go back to parent callers in the call stack, or execute custom
    code.

Logging with Weights and Biases (WandB)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After finding bugs in your code and making sure your script runs without throwing errors,
the next problem for you to tackle is typically the learning behavior of your algorithm, models,
and RL environment.

> A good place to start are the metrics RLlib provides by default. Each call to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start with the metrics that RLlib provides by default. Each call to the
```

                                     'num_trainable_parameters': 259,
                                     'policy_loss': -0.1476544886827469,
                                     'total_loss': -0.05217256397008896,
                                     'vf_loss': 9.208584785461426,
                                     'weights_seq_no': 1.0}},

     # Algorithm timers (mostly directly from within `training_step()`).
     'timers': {'env_runner_sampling_timer': 6.536753125023097,
                'learner_update_timer': 0.5848377080401406,
                'synch_weights': 0.0052911670645698905,
                'training_iteration': 7.127688749926165,
                'training_step': 7.127490875078365},

     # Other global stats: Lifetime counts, performance, timers, etc.
     'num_env_steps_sampled_lifetime': 4000,
     'num_training_step_calls_per_iteration': 1,
     'perf': {'cpu_util_percent': 11.118181818181817,
              'ram_util_percent': 47.72727272727273},
     'timestamp': 1737985593,
     'training_iteration': 1,
    }

Episode traces
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use the `data output API <rllib-offline.html>`__ to save episode traces

> for debugging. For example, the following command will run PPO while saving episode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for debugging. For example, the following command runs PPO while saving episode
```

traces to ``/tmp/debug``.

.. code-block:: bash

    cd rllib/tuned_examples/ppo
    python cartpole_ppo.py --output /tmp/debug

    # episode traces will be saved in /tmp/debug, for example
    output-2019-02-23_12-02-03_worker-2_0.json
    output-2019-02-23_12-02-04_worker-1_0.json

Log verbosity
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can control the log level through the ``--log_level`` command line argument in most of RLlib's example and tuned example scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can control the log level with the ``--log_level`` command line argument in most of RLlib example and tuned example scripts.
```
